So, guys, now let us discuss next that what does it mean when we see that my system is 32 bit system
or my system is 64 bit system?
Many times you must have come across this phrase or this saying that, hey, what is your system?
Is your system 32 bit system or 64 bit system?
All you must have experienced that while downloading certain software or packages from the Internet,
you are prompted whether you want to download a particular software for a 32 bit operating system or
64 bit operating system.
So now let's discuss in this lecture that what does it actually mean when we say that our system is
32 bit system or my system is 64 bit system?
So let us discuss in the context of 32 bit system, whatever reasoning we apply to attach it to a big
system.
The same reasoning applies to a 64 bit system.
So suppose we have a system which is 32 bit system.
It simply means that all processes in execution have theoretically to react to the power 32 virtual
addresses in its process, which will address the space.
So you can see that on the right hand side I have again drawn the process control block diagram of a
process and this diagram shows the memory layout of a process.
Now, as I said, that if the system is a 32 bit system, it means that the size of the process, which
will address the space of a process, will be to restore the power to 32 bytes.
Now, every byte has an address, so it means how many Whelchel addresses will be there in process,
which will address the space.
There will be to restore the power 32 virtual addresses or logical addresses.
So if we assume that the lowest logical address of a process is zero, then the highest logical address
for going to be to restore the power to minus one.
So addresses are nothing, but they are just 32 bit integers, which identifies Mahmoudi locations right
now.
This memory location could be any location in this process.
Quadrilaterals, the space, the starting from the memory location zero to the highest memory location.
Whose address is Trudi's to the power to two to minus one.
So suppose in your program you print an address of a variable.
Right.
So basically this statement will going to print the virtual address of a variable eight.
So what's your address means the address of some byte in this process which will address the space.
So I'm -- sure that you must have written subprogram and you must have printed addresses in order
to suppose debug your program.
So those addresses which you see on the output are actually virtual addresses of variables.
Those are not physical addresses, but those are words on addresses which you are printing on the screen.
Now, when I say that my system is a 32 bit system, it also means that the size of the database is
32 bits and the size of the address box is 32 bits.
So now we will going to discuss next that.
What does it mean when we see the size of the database has 32 bits and the size of the address was is
32 bits.
Now, the fact that your system is a 32 bit system also determines that how many bytes your CPU actually
read or write into physical memory or virtual memory at a time.
Now, let us discuss next that what is data, buzz and adverse buzz and how do they work on a 32 bit
system?